# useState: greeting

## ðŸ“ Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/01.md`


Hooks
``state:`` a very important concept of React. React State holds the data for a component. The component, in turn, returns the data contained within the state to the output.  or ``State is a JavaScript object. It stores data, any changes on that data will re-render the page.``

----------------
1. `React.useState`  âœ… - returns a pair of values -``[read then write a array]``
  - The useState Hook can be used to keep track of strings, numbers, booleans, arrays, objects, and any combination of these! 
  
  - working examples; 

    - Input; https://codepen.io/jude1/pen/dymjeOE/26e9642ed25fab94b3605825ad386b28 
    -   colour;  https://codesandbox.io/s/react-hooks-usestate-forked-qc0dmb 

  - We could create multiple state Hooks to track individual values.
  e.g. https://www.w3schools.com/react/react_usestate

----------------

2. `React.useRef`    âœ… - returns a value 

----------------
3. `React.useEffect` âœ… - return nothing at all, but tells your React component ``to do something after render`` it is a ``side-effects`` examples in use;    
  -  fetch requests
  -  manipulating DOM directly 
  -  using timer functions like setTimeout() etc.

- working examples: 
  -   Fetch async  https://codesandbox.io/s/pwlm62rmkx?file=/src/index.js:208-209 
  -   Async/ try: https://codepen.io/roryfn/pen/yrXore?editors=1010 

----------------
4. `React.useContext`

----------------
5. `React.useReducer`

----------------



## Extra Credit - three parts 
1. Destructure the props in ({place})
2. Set up the the useState initialize it with value 
3. make the function accept an initial value 
4. "value" prop turns the input into a `controlled input` Vs an  `uncontrolled input` where we let the browser handle the user's updates

A controlled component is preferred in React.

It allows us to keep all component states in the React state, instead of relying on the DOM to retrieve the element's value through its internal state.

A controlled component is a component that derives its input values from the state.

e.g. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/react-js-uncontrolled-vs-controlled-inputs/


Note:  why is it not the done thing to have information managed by the DOM?


## Background

Normally an interactive application will need to hold ``state`` somewhere. In React,
you use special functions called "hooks" to do this. Common built-in hooks
include:

- `React.useState`  
- `React.useEffect`  
- `React.useContext`
- `React.useRef`
- `React.useReducer`

Each of these is a special function that you can call inside your custom React
component function to store data (like state) or perform actions (or
side-effects). There are a few more built-in hooks that have special use cases,
but the ones above are what you'll be using most of the time.

Each of the hooks has a unique API. Some return a value (like `React.useRef` and
`React.useContext`), others return a pair of values (like `React.useState` and
`React.useReducer`), and others return nothing at all (like `React.useEffect`).

Here's an example of a component that uses the `useState` hook and an onClick
event handler to update that state:

```jsx
function Counter() {
  const [count, setCount] = React.useState(0)
  const increment = () => setCount(count + 1)
  return <button onClick={increment}>{count}</button>
}
```

`React.useState` is a function that accepts a single argument. That argument is
the initial state for the instance of the component. In our case, the state will
start as `0`.

`React.useState` returns a pair of values. It does this by returning an array
with two elements (and we use destructuring syntax to assign each of those
values to distinct variables). The first of the pair is the state value and the
second is a function we can call to update the state. We can name these
variables whatever we want. Common convention is to choose a name for the state
variable, then prefix `set` in front of that for the updater function.

State can be defined as: data that changes over time. So how does this work over
time? When the button is clicked, our `increment` function will be called at
which time we update the `count` by calling `setCount`.

When we call `setCount`, that tells React to re-render our component. When it
does this, the entire `Counter` function is re-run, so when `React.useState` is
called this time, the value we get back is the value that we called `setCount`
with. And it continues like that until `Counter` is unmounted (removed from the
application), or the user closes the application.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/01.js)
- [Final](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.js)

In this exercise we have a form where you can type in your name and it will give
you a greeting as you type. Fill out the `Greeting` component so that it manages
the state of the name and shows the greeting as the name is changed.

## Extra Credit

### 1. ðŸ’¯ accept an initialName

[Production deploy](https://react-hooks.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.extra-1.js)

Make the `Greeting` accept a prop called `initialName` and initialize the `name`
state to that value.

## ðŸ¦‰ Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Hooks%20%F0%9F%8E%A3&e=01%3A%20useState%3A%20greeting&em=).
